---
issue: 2022-10
order: 202210-04
layout: article
title: It's a Long Way to the Top
author: TimeCrush
---

With the recent PS2 console launch a new breath of life has been whirled into RetroAchievements, and the excitement is palpable. Bringing a staggering 85+ sets to the table on launch gives clear creedance and weight to the hype, showing us that despite cutting edge present day AAA releases, sometimes all you need is a loving hand weaving a modern technlogical thread through those old jeans memory values; good as new.

Of those enjoying the new console, there seems to be one user on the beat performing better than all the rest, on key and in tune - and I had the pleasure of sitting down in an interview with them to go over just how they secured their postition at the Top.

<div class="bingo-winner" justify-content="center">
  {% rauserpic Amir96lx %}
</div>

**AmirGaris / Amir96lx  - Currently #1 in PS2 Achivement count and points**  

**Current Game of Choice**: [Everhood](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1229380/Everhood/) - Steam

<am style="color:#0E86D4">Amir</am> <t style="color:orange">TimeCrush</t>

Initially in starting my conversation with Amir I could tell gaming was second nature, <am style="color:#0E86D4">"Just playing some Guitar Hero while we chat"</am>. ([Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock](https://retroachievements.org/game/5579)) I'd soon learn that there was never a moment to be wasted if you wanted to maintain a top position. I wanted to get an idea for where Amir got their foundation in gaming and how they intitially came to begin playing, <t style="color:orange">"What are your early gaming memories? Anything specific stand out to you?"</t> <am style="color:#0E86D4">"Rhythm games."</am> he answered without hesitation <am style="color:#0E86D4">"DDR that kind of thing."</am> <t style="color:orange">"Ahh gotcha. So did you play at the arcades or were these the home console editions?"</t> I was interested, and started to see the empty tabliture of an unkown person begin to fill. <am style="color:#0E86D4">"Both"</am> he laughed <am style="color:#0E86D4">"Honestly both. I just really enjoyed rhythm games."</am> There was a joy evident in his tone, good times assosciated with them. I pressed further, <t style="color:orange">"Were these excursions usually alone or did you go with somebody?"</t> <am style="color:#0E86D4">"My Brother"</am> Another 'no hesitation' answer <am style="color:#0E86D4">"I went with my Brother a lot"</am> This explained it. Familial joy and bonding together over games. <t style="color:orange">"A good time for sure! Was it the big bro who was schooling you in the arcade then?"</t> assuming the obvious <am style="color:#0E86D4">"No kinda the opposite actually"</am> he laughed again <t style="color:orange">"Hold on, the little brother was showing up the older brother?"</t> incredulous but in good humor I had to ask him. <am style="color:#0E86D4">"Yeah, I guess"</am> with another solid laugh, clearly understanding the light absurdity of the situation; Amir knew how to play. 

After settling into the groove and finding our tempo, I wanted to start digging into his method a little further. What made the metronome tick? <t style="color:orange">"So how do you end up picking the games you play?"</t> I left it intentionally vague <am style="color:#0E86D4">"Uh, I just really kind of play what I like or I'll ask my friend for YouTube."</am> Amir had been playing for some time and creating content on other platforms beyond RA <am style="color:#0E86D4">"I like to try and hundo things on Steam, the really hard achievements"</am> unprompted and to prove his clout, but with zero disrespectful boasting tone, Amir linked me to Masochist.me where their name resides atop the leaderboard - upon inspection the website name represents it's purpose proper: To maintain leadership here you must complete absolutely brutal games faster and before the rest. <t style="color:orange">"That's seriously impressive. How long have you been #1 here?"</t> <am style="color:#0E86D4">"Oh wow, probably 2019.. 2020 maybe?"</am> and he showed no time of leaving anytime soon. This led me to ask about his other first chair position, <t style="color:orange">"So were you aware that currently you hold the top position for both PS2 achivements and points?"</t> I tossed out casually <am style="color:#0E86D4">"Oh yeah?"</am> there was a light hitch in his reply, excitement being stiffled, Amir was humble <am style="color:#0E86D4">"I think a friend told me that I was first to complete their DDR set, and I was the #1 in PS2 but I didn't really know, wow"</am> that laugh came again, Amir was good natured as well. <t style="color:orange">"Yeah since launch you've been on top! Not to say you are without competition"</t> there was a second round, doughy, maybe sprinkled user hot on his tail <t style="color:orange">"Are you typically competitve or just in games?"</t> wanting to know if this was a leisureful desire to be the best, or a character trait that permeated throughout <am style="color:#0E86D4">"Games usually. Yeah just games I guess"</am> digital leaderboards it is then <t style="color:orange">"So does that mean you plan on maintaining your #1 spot with the PS2 currently?"</t> again I made the mistake of assuming what I thought was obvious, but an unanounced timing change <am style="color:#0E86D4">"Maybe. I just kind of play what I like or take requests."</am> completely jovially he chuckled <am style="color:#0E86D4">"I might go back and hundo PacMan"</am> ([Pac-Man World 2](https://retroachievements.org/game/19097)) <am style="color:#0E86D4">"but yeah just kind of play what I like"</am> he had a good attitude. 

As the natural decrescendo of a conversation coming into it's closing bars began to take hold, I wanted to dig into that good attitude and see if there was anything we could learn. <t style="color:orange">"Do you have any advice for other community members who would like to see themselves perform better?"</t> waiting intently I asked. <am style="color:#0E86D4">"Just keep playing. It's hard to say, but after 6 or 7 years of really gaming I would say just keep playing."</am> perseverance, easy to say but we've all tried to push so I played Devil's Advocate. <t style="color:orange">"What would you say to those who get frustrated and struggle to keep playing?"</t> a common issue <am style="color:#0E86D4">"Talk with some friends, take a break."</am> a support system, something we would all do better to maintain and value; I didn't have time to get lost in that wisdom though as he quickly conducted my eyes back to the score - I could hear the smile in his voice: <am style="color:#0E86D4">"But ultimately just keep playing"</am>

Getting to sit down with Amir was a fantastic experience and exemplified a great player, person, and competitor. I thank him for his time, and you dear reader for coming along with us. Keep striving for that next great milestone, and you may be featured in a coming interview, just remember:

**It's a Long Way to the Top**
